La Charlotte Prit Notre Dame Durant La Nuit Du Réveillon by Jean Ritus, read in French. This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain. For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org. for more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org. for more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org. for more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org. Everyone only thinks about crostillés. There are lots of people in the rotisseries, in the spice shops, in the butchers. And it smells good, the grilled pudding. It makes my guts tingle. Now I have a nose. In time, when it happened, if I wanted to freeze to death that night, on the straw of your squirrel, you shouldn't have had anything cold, Jesus and you, Virgin Mary. Bim! They beat me with litres, pints, quarts of booze, plates of oysters. No! Look at all these bastards. Oh! Excuse me, Virgin Mary, I think I said a bad word. Aren't you angry that a girl of love, full of sins, caused you tonight in her own way to explain these miseries to you? Tell me you're not angry. It's true that I left home, but it was cladé at the neck, the back, every row, the dap, always under the frangines, already crossed. It was a real hell, Holy Virgin. That said, without being confronted, you yourself wouldn't have stayed. It's true that I paved the turbine, but the worker doesn't earn his bread. Whatever he does, he is badly paid, he doesn't even do it for his salary. In the end, what? It discourages you. You no longer have the heart for the work, the courage, nor the worker's character. I must say again, Virgin Mary, that I loved without permission my little one, my Beguin, a thug who is now in Algeria for his condemnations. But when you've cut off all the kids, you always need a caress. You die of love all your life. You don't do it again. What do you want? Yet I'm still faithful, despite the others who cheat on me afterwards. There is the great Jules who doesn't want to leave me. I would have to marry him, just like they say, to fatten him up. Well, so far, nothing has been done. I didn't want to, Virgin Mary. In the end, I'm disheartened. I'm often put in the hostel, and I've fought so many times that I'm fed up with it. In short, I'm nothing but a scoundrel, a real scoundrel, Virgin Mary. Only, whatever we do or say, to try to behave well, there is something that is stronger than you. Well, it's not a good Sunday, I swear to you, it's true, Virgin Mary. Despite the fact that I've lived my life, I've often thought of you. And tonight, again, it reminds me of a time that will never come back. When I went to your chapel, it reminded me that it was your birthday. I see your beautiful blue dress again, your veil, even though it was stained with stars, your beautiful golden crown on your head, and your treasure on your arm. For sure you were pretty, like a queen, like a mirror. And it's true that I see you again tonight, with my eyes full of consolation. It's as if I were speaking. Only, it's not like at school, those poor students tonight, madame, they are blushed and full of tears. Also, if you want, Virgin Mary, do something for me tonight, reminding you of that time when I wasn't an Olympian. You have calmed my little finger, don't worry about the rest. I'm not asking you for anything dishonest. It's just that I find and pick up a door with a galette lost by one of those girls who pass by, rather than the sweeper. A lasagna door, Virgin Mary, with an orange in it. It would help me to hide, and it would allow me to wait for tomorrow, and to sink myself into a pudding. Or, if you can't, or don't want to, Virgin Mary, you'll find me very hardy. But, make me jump right away. And then, take me with you, take me into paradise, where it's hot, where it's sweet, where I'll never again live. Except, my little one, when I'm not healed. You think I'll regret nothing. Saint-Lagos, the tower, the doctors, the barbers, and the argousins. Take me with you, take me with you, before the night is over, and before I'm picked up again. Holy Virgin, take me with you, I beg you. I can't stand it anymore. Come, light my hands, and discover my little shoes. I only have my summer costume, which I dyed black for the winter. Yes, take me with you, take me with you, and as there must be a way, if sometimes you feel, Holy Virgin, full of grace, to carry in your arms our Lord. A child is heavy at the end. You will pass him to me at some point, and I will carry him in my turn, without letting him fall to the ground, as I did with my parents. The little moment in the fauvour when I carried my little brothers. Music by Hermann Hofgans
